
Test on 2015-10-1 and 10/1/2015



Restaurant Review: Mu Ramen in Long Island City, Queens

Continue reading the main story Slide Show

Mu Ramen
CreditAn Rong Xu for The New York Times
Before telling you how impressed I am by the new Mu Ramen in Long Island City, Queens, I want to clear up my role in the demise of the first Mu Ramen.

Last March, I wrote an article about New York’s quickly diversifying ramen landscape. One place I discussed was Mu Ramen, which had found a temporary home operating after-hours inside a bagel shop. Almost as an afterthought, I made a list of the 10 ramen bowls I had enjoyed the most during my reporting, putting Mu’s suave and creamy tonkotsu at the top.

The article and the list appeared online on a Tuesday afternoon. On Wednesday morning, Mu Ramen canceled all future appearances, saying it had been deluged with requests for reservations. Immediately, I was blamed in some quarters for killing the pop-up. One person on Twitter, accusing me of stoking a demand that the place could not handle, went so far as to call me a “herb.”

If I knew how to make money, I wouldn’t work for a newspaper. Still, I had a sense that this is not how capitalism works. Last week, Joshua Smookler, Mu Ramen’s chef and its owner, told me “the real reason” he had decamped from the bagel shop.

“I was scared of the government finding out what we were doing,” he said, even though he believed it was legal, “and was afraid that would have an effect on our doing a brick-and-mortar.”

He had just signed a lease on the current site, and he and his wife, Heidy He, wanted to concentrate on getting it ready.

Others can judge whether that makes me a card-carrying herb. For my part, I’m just happy to report that the new, bagel-free Mu Ramen is a great place to smooth over any hard feelings caused by its nine-month absence.

Of all the restaurants in the city where you are expected to make loud slurping noises while you eat, Mu may be the most civilized. The 22 seats half-fill a space that could easily hold more, and if you have to wait for one of them (after an experiment with reservations, the place is now first come first served, except for the tasting menus that will begin later this month), the deep built-in benches by the front door are a pleasant change from, say, the steps in front of Totto Ramen in Hell’s Kitchen. Six of the seats face a counter. The rest surround three slabs of reclaimed wood. These communal tables touch but don’t quite line up, creating little pockets of semi-intimacy, along with a sense of roominess. Running along the ceiling are thin wood slats bent into waves. They look like noodles swimming out of the kitchen.

Continue reading the main story
Before you face down the ramen, the appetizers may call your name; they definitely called mine. One of the best things to eat at Mu comes not from the streets of Tokyo, where Mr. Smookler has never been, but from his apartment, where he and his wife steam mussels when friends come for dinner. At the restaurant, he cooks clams instead, spooning a hypnotically aromatic saffron aioli over them. Then the dish takes a leap that makes no sense until you try it: You pick up a clam and scoop up some Vietnamese nuoc cham with the shell. Why the flowery musk of saffron reacts so well to lime and fish sauce I cannot say. Every clam was a fresh surprise and a fresh mystery.

He also makes a tender, airy corn pancake, squirts some foie-gras-fortified maple syrup over it, then covers it with smoked trout. It’s wonderful, especially if you like the sneaky feeling of eating breakfast at night. The only Japanese thing about it, other than the flyingfish roe dotting the trout, is the name. Mr. Smookler calls it an “okonomiyaki” (quotation marks his).

For a fuller immersion in Japanese flavors, try the chirashi variant called U&I, named for the uni and ikura that are mounded with spicy raw tuna over sushi rice. U&I is far from groundbreaking, which does not at all detract from its pleasure. But the two times I tried the fried chicken wings stuffed with foie gras and brioche, they did not stop traffic, which they are clearly meant to do. The crust and meat were superb, but the stuffing was dull, and the quince paste that might have brought it into relief was bunched up at one end of the wing.

Mr. Smookler trained in the meticulous rigor of Per Se’s kitchen, and his gift, those wings notwithstanding, is his Keller-like drive to find a better way. This usually means a harder and more costly way. When his supply of pork for tonkotsu broth suddenly dried up last year, he went to the Midwest and persuaded nearly 40 farmers who raise Berkshire hogs to start a cooperative. Then he arranged for a small slaughterhouse to butcher the four cuts of pork he wanted and ship them to Long Island City, where he would cook 120 pounds of bones at a raging boil for most of a day.

This is a long way to go for a bowl of soup. (Metaphorically speaking, it is also a long journey for Mr. Smookler, who was born in South Korea and raised in New York as an Orthodox Jew.) If $15 seems a fair price for those ingredients, the conviction only grows once you start eating.

Photo


Mu Ramen's namesake dish, with a stock inspired by the Korean dish seolleongtang. Credit An Rong Xu for The New York Times
Like all of Mu Ramen’s broths, the tonkotsu has a flavor both deep and long, with extraordinary balance and a rounded profile that has no jarring, gamy edges. Without being greasy, it’s gorgeously full-bodied and almost chewy; as you wind the noodles into your mouth, the droplets that cling to them feel like heavy cream. The flavor is very good, but it’s the texture that can rock you back on your three-legged stool.

Mr. Smookler pulls a similar consistency out of boiled beef bones, veal bones and oxtails for the soup he calls Mu Ramen. He drew the inspiration for the stock from the Korean dish seolleongtang. For the toppings, he went to the other side of his upbringing. He corns beef brisket, brines cucumber ribbons and shaves raw cabbage into threads that cook when they hit the bowl. The half-sour pickles are juicy and refreshing, and at the same time they transport you to your favorite delicatessen.

More meetings with more farmers produced the chicken skin, feet and giblets that go into the shoyu ramen that just strutted onto the menu. The broth is another full-bodied knockout, and the chicken flavor is pure and intense.

The weightiest, richest possible broth is not necessarily the ramen ideal. Ramen Lab, on Kenmare Street in Manhattan, makes a more traditional shoyu with a chicken broth that is very pure but more restrained than Mr. Smooker’s, so it blends with the soy more willingly. Mr. Smookler’s ramen is so compelling in part because it’s an exception. My praise for it should not be taken as a signal to other chefs to try to make soups as robustly silky as his.

Speaking of praise, if I had it all to do over again, would I still tell the world how much I admire Mu Ramen? Do I feel the same way now?

Absolutely.



Panera Bread Plans to Drop a Long List of Ingredients

Photo

A Panera store in New York. The company says it will banish many artificial ingredients in 2016. Credit Chang W. Lee/The New York Times
Acesulfame K. Ethoxyquin. Artificial smoke flavor.

The first, an artificial sweetener; the second, a preservative; and the third, a flavor enhancer, are just a few of the ingredients that Panera Bread wants to banish from its kitchens by the end of 2016.

In doing so, Panera would join the growing ranks of food companies and restaurants that have announced plans to eliminate a variety of artificial preservatives, flavors and colors, as well as different kinds of sweeteners and meat from animals raised with antibiotics, in response to consumer demands for transparency and simplicity in the foods they eat.

“We’re trying to draw a line in the sand in the industry so that consumers have an easy way to know what’s in the food they buy,” said Ron Shaich, chief executive of Panera.

In the last six months, at least a dozen food companies and restaurant businesses have announced plans to reformulate products to eliminate ingredients. “To me, this has gone way beyond anything that could even be remotely considered a fad and become a powerful trend,” said Carl Jorgensen, director for global consumer strategy focusing on wellness at Daymon Worldwide, a consulting firm.

Nestlé USA has said it will remove artificial flavorings and colors from its chocolate candy products, including brands like Butterfinger and Baby Ruth, as well as from Nesquik powdered drink mixes.

Hershey in December said it would work to replace high-fructose corn syrup in sweets like York peppermint patties and Almond Joy candy bars. Two months later, the company said it was moving to make all of its products from “ingredients that are simple and easy to understand.”

Kraft recently said it would replace the artificial colorings that give Macaroni and Cheese its orange hue with colors derived from spices like turmeric and paprika, and PepsiCo announced that it would use sucralose to sweeten Diet Pepsi instead of the artificial sweetener aspartame.

Last month, McDonald’s became the latest major restaurant chain to say it would no longer sell products made with chicken treated with human antibiotics. A few weeks later, Tyson Foods, a major meat company that is one of McDonald’s suppliers, said it would eliminate such antibiotics from its poultry and begin working to get them out of other meats as well.

Even Snackwell, which started its life as a brand with reduced fat, is undergoing a makeover aimed at getting rid of high-fructose corn syrup, hydrogenated oils and artificial colors and flavors. “In this day and age, the consumer who was satisfied with reduced fat or fat-free 20 years ago is not satisfied with that any more,” said Vincent Fantegrossi, chief executive of the Back to Nature Foods Company, which is owned by Brynwood Partners, a private equity group.

Retooling an iconic brand is tricky. Companies must make sure that consumers cannot detect any change in taste, texture or quality, or all may be lost.

“That actually makes the challenge for companies like us that have well-known brands greater, compared to small companies that can simply make a product from scratch without these ingredients,” said Leslie Mohr, marketing manager for Nestlé USA’s confectionary business.

Continue reading the main story
While most of the companies have been careful to say they are merely responding to consumer demands, not making a value judgment on such ingredients, they often face heavy criticism. Chipotle Mexican Grill’s announcement that it had eliminated genetically modified ingredients from the foods it makes — though, like Panera, not from the sodas it sells — evoked a torrent of outraged responses.

The Washington Post editorial board called Chipotle’s move a “gimmick” that was “hard to swallow,” while NPR’s popular food blog, The Salt, accused the company of having a double standard for adopting sunflower oil, which it said was often treated with a pesticide known for weed resistance.

“This is a complicated issue, and I would suggest there is less here than meets the eye,” said L. Val Giddings, a senior fellow at the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation.

Mr. Giddings noted that although General Mills got a lot of publicity for eliminating genetically modified ingredients from original Cheerios, those were just a tiny part of the cereal’s ingredients. “I think what they were doing at least in part was testing the water to see if they could capitalize on it, and what they have found is pretty illuminating,” he said. “The move had no impact on sales.”

Mr. Shaich said Panera’s decision to come up with what it calls “The No No List” had more to do with protecting the sales it has. The list is based on research and standards developed by Johns Hopkins, the Environmental Working Group, the Natural Resources Defense Council and various European governments.

“I’m not a scientist and I’m not wading into the debate over whether any of these things cause cancer or are otherwise bad for you,” he said. “I just think this is where the consumer’s head is right now.”

Panera uses more than 450 ingredients to prepare its foods. The company had to work with both its suppliers and their suppliers, who themselves were not always sure whether their products contained the ingredients Panera has decided to eliminate.

“These ingredients have been added over time to improve efficiency and consistency and as preservatives as supply chains have gotten longer and longer,” said Sara Burnett, senior quality assurance manager at Panera.

Solutions are not always perfect. Panera is rejecting titanium dioxide, a whitener commonly used in products like ice cream and icings, from its mozzarella, yet cheese browns as it ages. “We don’t know how customers will react,” Ms. Burnett said.

Salad dressing proved the menu item most difficult to reformulate, she said, in part because different oils impart specific viscosity and taste. For Greek salad dressing, Panera had to take apart the spice mix it used and go back to the basics — lemon juice, garlic, oregano and rosemary.

“We learned we don’t have to have these things on the list,” Ms. Burnett said, “so why have them?”

Correction: May 5, 2015 
An earlier version of this article erroneously included one cereal among those from which General Mills has eliminated genetically modified ingredients. Grape-Nuts is made by Post and is not one of the cereals affected.